docs(tekton): add user docs (#365)
janus-idp/backstage-plugins: plugins/tekton/README.md

# Tekton plugin for Backstage

The Tekton plugin enables you to visualize the `PipelineRun` resources available on the Kubernetes cluster.

# Table of contents

1. [For administrators](#for-administrators)

   a. [Installation](#installation)

   b. [Development](#development)

1. [For users](#for-users)

   a. [Using the Tekton plugin in Backstage](#using-the-tekton-plugin-in-backstage)

## For administrators

### Installation

#### Prerequisites

> - The Kubernetes plugins including `@backstage/plugin-kubernetes` and `@backstage/plugin-kubernetes-backend` are installed and configured by following the [installation](https://backstage.io/docs/features/kubernetes/installation) and [configuration](https://backstage.io/docs/features/kubernetes/configuration) guides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Follow the [installation](https://backstage.io/docs/features/kubernetes/installation) and [configuration](https://backstage.io/docs/features/kubernetes/configuration) guides to install and configure the Kubernetes plugins including `@backstage/plugin-kubernetes` and `@backstage/plugin-kubernetes-backend`.
```

  ```yaml
   kubernetes:
     ...
     customResources:
       - group: 'tekton.dev'
         apiVersion: 'v1beta1'
         plural: 'pipelineruns'
       - group: 'tekton.dev'
         apiVersion: 'v1beta1'
         plural: 'taskruns'
  ```
- The Kubernetes plugin is configured and connects to the cluster using a `ServiceAccount`.
- The [`ClusterRole`](https://backstage.io/docs/features/kubernetes/configuration#role-based-access-control) must be granted for custom resources (PipelineRuns and TaskRuns) to `ServiceAccount` accessing the cluster. If you have the Backstage Kubernetes Plugin configured, then the `ClusterRole` is already granted.

  You can use the following code to grant the `ClusterRole` for custom resources:

  ```yaml
  ...
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    kind: ClusterRole
    metadata:
      name: backstage-read-only
    rules:
      ...
      - apiGroups:
          - tekton.dev
        resources:
          - pipelineruns
          - taskruns
        verbs:
          - get
          - list

  ```

> - The following annotation is added to the entity's `catalog-info.yaml` file to identify whether an entitiy contains the Kubernetes resources:

Reviewer: (there is some guesswork in this one too, please double-check)

  ```yaml

>   annotations:
>   backstage.io/kubernetes-id: <BACKSTAGE_ENTITY_NAME>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  annotations:
    ...
    backstage.io/kubernetes-id: <BACKSTAGE_ENTITY_NAME>
```

Author: Done

>   annotations:
>   backstage.io/kubernetes-id: <BACKSTAGE_ENTITY_NAME>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  annotations:
      ...
      backstage.io/kubernetes-id: <BACKSTAGE_ENTITY_NAME>
```

Author: Done

  ```

  You can also add the `backstage.io/kubernetes-namespace` annotation to identify the Kubernetes resources using the defined namespace.

  ```yaml

>   annotations:
>     backstage.io/kubernetes-namespace: <RESOURCE_NS>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  annotations:
    ...
    backstage.io/kubernetes-namespace: <RESOURCE_NS>
```

Author: Done

>   annotations:
>     backstage.io/kubernetes-namespace: <RESOURCE_NS>

Reviewer 3: Here `...` indicates any other annotations so we should be consistent
```suggestion
  annotations:
    ...
    backstage.io/kubernetes-namespace: <RESOURCE_NS>
```

Author: Done

  ```

> - The following annotation is added to the `catalog-info.yaml` file of entity to view the latest `PipelineRun` in the CI/CD tab of the application:

Reviewer: Again - at what time is the annotation added? Or do you want to instruct the user to ad this annotation? Also "file of *the* entity"

  ```yaml
  annotations:
    ...
    janus-idp.io/tekton-enabled : 'true'
  ```
- A custom label selector can be added, which Backstage uses to find the Kubernetes resources. The label selector takes precedence over the ID annotations.

  ```yaml

>   annotations: ...
>   backstage.io/kubernetes-label-selector: 'app=my-app,component=front-end'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  annotations:
    ...
    backstage.io/kubernetes-label-selector: 'app=my-app,component=front-end'
```

Author: Done

>   annotations: ...
>   backstage.io/kubernetes-label-selector: 'app=my-app,component=front-end'

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  annotations: 
      ...
      backstage.io/kubernetes-label-selector: 'app=my-app,component=front-end'
```

Author: Done

  ```

- The following label is added to the resources so that the Kubernetes plugin gets the Kubernetes resources from the requested entity:

  ```yaml

>   labels: ...
>   backstage.io/kubernetes-id: <BACKSTAGE_ENTITY_NAME>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  labels:
    ...
    backstage.io/kubernetes-id: <BACKSTAGE_ENTITY_NAME>`
```

Author: Done

>   labels: ...
>   backstage.io/kubernetes-id: <BACKSTAGE_ENTITY_NAME>`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  labels: 
     ...
     backstage.io/kubernetes-id: <BACKSTAGE_ENTITY_NAME>`
```

Author: Done

  You can use the following code to grant the `ClusterRole` for custom resources:

  ```yaml
  ---
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    kind: ClusterRole
    metadata:
      name: backstage-read-only
    rules:
      ...
      - apiGroups:
          - tekton.dev
        resources:
          - pipelineruns
          - taskruns
        verbs:
          - get
          - list

  ```

- The following annotation is added to the entity's `catalog-info.yaml` file to identify whether an entitiy contains the Kubernetes resources:

  ```yaml
  annotations:
  backstage.io/kubernetes-id: <BACKSTAGE_ENTITY_NAME>
  ```

  You can also add the `backstage.io/kubernetes-namespace` annotation to identify the Kubernetes resources using the defined namespace.

  ```yaml
  annotations:
    backstage.io/kubernetes-namespace: <RESOURCE_NS>
  ```

- The following annotation is added to the `catalog-info.yaml` file of entity to view the latest `PipelineRun` in the CI/CD tab of the application:
  ```yaml
  annotations:

>     ...

Reviewer 3: let's be consistent below I see `---` and here we have `...`

Reviewer 2: `---` is a document separator in yaml, it should be `...` everywhere.

    janus-idp.io/tekton-enabled : 'true'
  ```

> - A custom label selector is added, which Backstage uses to find the Kubernetes resources. The label selector takes precedence over the ID annotations.

Reviewer 3: this is optional , so can change if it makes sense else ignore
```suggestion
- A custom label selector can be added, which Backstage uses to find the Kubernetes resources. The label selector takes precedence over the ID annotations.
```

- The following `customResources` component is added in the [`app-config.yaml`](https://backstage.io/docs/features/kubernetes/configuration#configuring-kubernetes-clusters) file:
  ```yaml
   kubernetes:
     ...
     customResources:
       - group: 'tekton.dev'
         apiVersion: 'v1beta1'
         plural: 'pipelineruns'
       - group: 'tekton.dev'
         apiVersion: 'v1beta1'
         plural: 'taskruns'
  ```
- The Kubernetes plugin is configured and connects to the cluster using a `ServiceAccount`.
- The [`ClusterRole`](https://backstage.io/docs/features/kubernetes/configuration#role-based-access-control) must be granted for custom resources (PipelineRuns and TaskRuns) to `ServiceAccount` accessing the cluster. If you have the Backstage Kubernetes Plugin configured, then the `ClusterRole` is already granted.

  You can use the following code to grant the `ClusterRole` for custom resources:

  ```yaml

>   ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done

   );
   ```

### Development

In [Backstage plugin terminology](https://backstage.io/docs/local-dev/cli-build-system#package-roles), the Tekton plugin is a front-end plugin. You can start a live development session from the repository root using the following command:

```console
yarn workspace @janus-idp/backstage-plugin-tekton run start
```

## For users

### Using the Tekton plugin in Backstage

Tekton is a front-end plugin that enables you to view the `PipelineRun` resources.

#### Prerequisites

- Your Backstage application is installed and running.

> - You have installed the Tekton plugin. For installation process, see [Installation](#installation).

Reviewer: *the* installation process

#### Procedure

1. Open your Backstage application and select a component from the **Catalog** page.
1. Go to the **CI/CD** tab.

>    The **CI/CD** tab displays the latest `PipelineRun` resources associated to a Kubernetes cluster. The resources include tasks to complete, and when you hover on a task card, you can view the steps to complete that particular task.

Reviewer: I'd break up the sentence. "...to complete. When you hover the mouse pointer on a task card..."
